add warning to string interpolation section (#3863)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/book/pipeline/jenkinsfile.adoc

Understanding how to use string interpolation is vital for using some of
Pipeline's more advanced features.

==== [red]*WARNING: Interpolation of Sensitive Variables*
Groovy string interpolation should [red]*never* be used with sensitive variables. This is
because the sensitive variable will be interpolated at Groovy evaluation and the variable's
value could possibly be made available earlier than intended, resulting in the sensitive data leaking.

For example, consider a password variable passed to the shell step. Should Groovy perform the

> interpolation, the password value would become available not only in the shell step, but the

Reviewer: I would try to be careful to distinguish "variables" and "environment variables" everywhere, and I would give an example of a "bad" Pipeline using `withCredentials` and the `sh` step and then a "good" example showing the right way to do things.

Author: Do you think the String Interpolation section should be placed below the environment variables section then? Since we would want to explain that the variables declared in `withCredentials` are environment variables?

Reviewer: I don't have a strong opinion on placement. You could link to the environment variables and credentials sections on the page when you mention those topics the first time in the new content.

Author: done in 5e8a114acd559b02df299446e548619b622f724a

Jenkins Controller as well. Additionally, if the password contained special characters
(e.g. ' " / \ $ & % ^ > < | ;) it would also be possible to perform SQL-like injections into the

> shell step. Special characters can also prevent the password from being masked properly in the console logs.

Reviewer: I would probably split this into a separate section, since it applies to any user-controlled parameter or environment variable, not just secrets, and it is specific to the `sh`, `bat`, `powershell`, and `pwsh` steps, and could also use an example or two to demonstrate the problem and the possible solutions.

Author: split in 5e8a114acd559b02df299446e548619b622f724a

many newcomers to the language. While Groovy supports declaring a string with
either single quotes, or double quotes, for example:

[source,groovy]
----
def singlyQuoted = 'Hello'
def doublyQuoted = "World"
----

Only the latter string will support the dollar-sign (`$`) based string
interpolation, for example:

[source,groovy]
----
def username = 'Jenkins'
echo 'Hello Mr. ${username}'
echo "I said, Hello Mr. ${username}"
----

Would result in:

[source]
----
Hello Mr. ${username}
I said, Hello Mr. Jenkins
----

Understanding how to use string interpolation is vital for using some of
Pipeline's more advanced features.

[WARNING]
.Interpolation of sensitive environment variables
====

Groovy string interpolation should [red]*never* be used with sensitive environment variables (i.e. credentials, see: <<Handling credentials>>).
This is because the sensitive environment variable will be interpolated during Groovy evaluation, and the environment variable's value could be made available earlier than intended, resulting in sensitive data leaking in various contexts.

For example, consider a sensitive environment variable passed to the `sh` step.
```

> node {
>   withCredentials([usernamePassword(credentialsId: 'creds', usernameVariable: 'USERNAME', passwordVariable: 'PASSWORD')] {
>     /* WRONG! */
>     sh "curl -u ${USERNAME}:${PASSWORD} https://example.com/"
>   }
> }

Reviewer: Now that I look at the rest of the page more closely, everything else is using Declarative, so it would probably be best to switch all of your examples to Declarative:

```suggestion
pipeline {
    agent any
    environment {
        EXAMPLE_CREDS = credentials('example-credentials-id')
    }
    stages {
        stage('Example') {
            steps {
                /* WRONG! */
                sh("curl -u ${EXAMPLE_CREDS_USR}:${EXAMPLE_CREDS_PSW} https://example.com/")
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Author: swapped to declarative in 881f5b75229a60e43b136a639b47bc5cec2e5e10

    // value of credential = sec>ret
    sh 'echo $SECRET_VALUE'
  }
}
```

This kind of issue also sometimes occurs accidentally when credentials that contain special characters are passed to a step using Groovy interpolation.
This can result in the credentials being mangled, causing them to be invalid, and preventing them from being automatically masked in the console log.
```
node {
  withCredentials([string(credentialsId: 'sec-ret-with-symbols', variable: 'SECRET_VALUE')]) {
    // value of credential = sec%ret
    bat "echo $SECRET_VALUE"
  }
}
```
Here, the `bat` step receives `echo sec%ret` and the Windows batch shell will simply drop the `%` and print out the value `secret`.
Because there is a single character difference, the value `secret` will not be masked.
Though the value is not exactly the same as the actual password, this is still a significant exposure of sensitive information.
Again, single-quotes avoids this issue.
```
node {
  withCredentials([string(credentialsId: 'sec-ret-with-symbols', variable: 'SECRET_VALUE')]) {
    // value of credential = sec%ret
    bat 'echo $SECRET_VALUE'
  }
}
```

> ====
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: That line actually marks the end of the `Injection via interpolation` admonition, so if I remove it, it will go past into the next section.

  `withCredentials( ... ) { ... }` step snippet.

=== String interpolation

Jenkins Pipeline uses rules identical to link:http://groovy-lang.org[Groovy] for
string interpolation. Groovy's String interpolation support can be confusing to
many newcomers to the language. While Groovy supports declaring a string with
either single quotes, or double quotes, for example:

[source,groovy]
----
def singlyQuoted = 'Hello'
def doublyQuoted = "World"
----

Only the latter string will support the dollar-sign (`$`) based string
interpolation, for example:

[source,groovy]
----
def username = 'Jenkins'
echo 'Hello Mr. ${username}'
echo "I said, Hello Mr. ${username}"
----

Would result in:

[source]
----
Hello Mr. ${username}
I said, Hello Mr. Jenkins
----

Understanding how to use string interpolation is vital for using some of
Pipeline's more advanced features.

> [WARNING]

Reviewer 2: this looks quite weird having such a large warning section, I scroll and scroll and scroll and the page is on the far right of my monitor

I think this needs breaking up and using the warning ⚠️ UI elements more appropriately

        EXAMPLE_CREDS = credentials('example-credentials-id')
    }
    stages {
        stage('Example') {
            steps {
                /* CORRECT */
                sh('curl -u $EXAMPLE_CREDS_USR:$EXAMPLE_CREDS_PSW https://example.com/')
            }
        }
    }
}
```

==== Injection via interpolation

[WARNING]
======
Groovy string interpolation can inject rogue commands into command interpreters via special characters.
======

Another note of caution. Using Groovy string interpolation for user-controlled variables with steps that pass their arguments to command interpreters such as the `sh`, `bat`, `powershell`, or `pwsh` steps can result in problems analogous to SQL injection.
This occurs when a user-controller variable (generally an environment variable, usually a parameter passed to the build) that contains special characters (e.g. `' " / \ $ & % ^ > < | ;`) is passed to the `sh`, `bat`, `powershell`, or `pwsh` steps using Groovy interpolation.
For a simple example:

```
pipeline {
  agent any
  parameters {
    password(name: 'EXAMPLE_SECRET', defaultValue: 'sec>ret', description: 'Enter a password')
  }
  stages {
    stage('Example') {
      steps {

>         sh "echo $EXAMPLE_SECRET"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        /* WRONG! */
        sh "echo $EXAMPLE_SECRET"
```

Author: see 4ed76f88a0c0770138b8f19c756202c3153a5dc7

      }
    }
  }
}
```
In this example, the argument to the `sh` step is evaluated by Groovy and `SECRET_VALUE` is interpolated directly into the argument as if `sh('echo sec>ret')` has been written in the Pipeline.
When this is processed on the agent, rather than echoing the value `sec>ret`, it will create a file called `ret` containing the value `sec`.
Any user able to control a variable interpolated by such a step would be able to make the `sh` step run arbitrary code on the agent.
To avoid this problem, make sure arguments to steps such as `sh` or `bat` that reference parameters or other user-controller environment variables use single quotes to avoid Groovy interpolation.

```
pipeline {
  agent any
  parameters {
    password(name: 'EXAMPLE_SECRET', defaultValue: 'sec>ret', description: 'Enter a password')
  }
  stages {
    stage('Example') {
      steps {

>         sh 'echo $EXAMPLE_SECRET'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        /* CORRECT */
        sh 'echo $EXAMPLE_SECRET'
```

Author: see 4ed76f88a0c0770138b8f19c756202c3153a5dc7

      }
    }
  }
}
```
Credential mangling is another issue that can occur when credentials that contain special characters are passed to a step using Groovy interpolation.
When the credential value is mangled, it is no longer valid and will no longer be masked in the console log.

```
pipeline {
  agent any
  parameters {

>     string(name: 'URL', defaultValue: 'sec%retWithUrl', description: 'Enter a URL')

Reviewer: Looks like you changed these examples from `password` to `string`, but what I meant in https://github.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/pull/3863#discussion_r519902863 was that for this example and the next I would use credentials instead of parameters.

Author: see 4ed76f88a0c0770138b8f19c756202c3153a5dc7

  }
  stages {
    stage('Example') {
      steps {

>         bat "echo %URL%"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        /* WRONG! */
        bat "echo %URL%"
```

Author: see 4ed76f88a0c0770138b8f19c756202c3153a5dc7

      }
    }
  }
}
```
Here, the `bat` step receives `echo sec%retWithUrl` and the Windows batch shell will simply drop the `%` and print out the value `secretWithUrl`.
Because there is a single character difference, the value `secretWithUrl` will not be masked.
Though it is not the same as the actual sensitive value, this is still a significant exposure of sensitive information.
Again, single-quotes avoids this issue.

```
pipeline {
  agent any
  parameters {
    string(name: 'URL', defaultValue: 'sec%retWithUrl', description: 'Enter a URL')
  }
  stages {
    stage('Example') {
      steps {

>         bat 'echo %URL%'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        /* CORRECT */
        bat 'echo %URL%'
```

Author: see 4ed76f88a0c0770138b8f19c756202c3153a5dc7

        EXAMPLE_CREDS = credentials('example-credentials-id')
    }
    stages {
        stage('Example') {
            steps {
                /* CORRECT */
                sh('curl -u $EXAMPLE_CREDS_USR:$EXAMPLE_CREDS_PSW https://example.com/')
            }
        }
    }
}
```

==== Injection via interpolation

[WARNING]
======
Groovy string interpolation can inject rogue commands into command interpreters via special characters.
======

Another note of caution. Using Groovy string interpolation for user-controlled variables with steps that pass their arguments to command interpreters such as the `sh`, `bat`, `powershell`, or `pwsh` steps can result in problems analogous to SQL injection.
This occurs when a user-controller variable (generally an environment variable, usually a parameter passed to the build) that contains special characters (e.g. `' " / \ $ & % ^ > < | ;`) is passed to the `sh`, `bat`, `powershell`, or `pwsh` steps using Groovy interpolation.
For a simple example:

```
pipeline {
  agent any
  parameters {
    password(name: 'EXAMPLE_SECRET', defaultValue: 'sec>ret', description: 'Enter a password')
  }
  stages {
    stage('Example') {
      steps {

>         sh "echo $EXAMPLE_SECRET"

Reviewer: Discussed elsewhere, but for this example I would use a plain `string` parameter to make it clear that this problem isn't directly related to whether the value being interpolated is a secret or not.

Author: updated to string parameter in 3481e9984ce629aa54dab6a8d64dac087f3fc4b3

Reviewer: Looks like this is still a password parameter? (same with the corrected example)

      }
    }
  }
}
```
In this example, the argument to the `sh` step is evaluated by Groovy and `SECRET_VALUE` is interpolated directly into the argument as if `sh('echo sec>ret')` has been written in the Pipeline.
When this is processed on the agent, rather than echoing the value `sec>ret`, it will create a file called `ret` containing the value `sec`.
Any user able to control a variable interpolated by such a step would be able to make the `sh` step run arbitrary code on the agent.
To avoid this problem, make sure arguments to steps such as `sh` or `bat` that reference parameters or other user-controller environment variables use single quotes to avoid Groovy interpolation.

```
pipeline {
  agent any
  parameters {
    password(name: 'EXAMPLE_SECRET', defaultValue: 'sec>ret', description: 'Enter a password')
  }
  stages {
    stage('Example') {
      steps {
        sh 'echo $EXAMPLE_SECRET'
      }
    }
  }
}
```
Credential mangling is another issue that can occur when credentials that contain special characters are passed to a step using Groovy interpolation.
When the credential value is mangled, it is no longer valid and will no longer be masked in the console log.

> .NOTE: When using password parameters, the Masked Passwords plugin should be installed to mask sensitive parameters from the console

Reviewer: I would not even mention this. Mask Passwords has no active maintainer and in general credentials should be used instead to avoid this problem, and this page already discusses credentials in detail.

```suggestion
```

Author: removed in 14207f3170d53d803556c01f4b56468ddc587615

```
pipeline {
  agent any
  parameters {
    password(name: 'EXAMPLE_SECRET', defaultValue: 'sec%ret', description: 'Enter a password')
  }
  stages {
    stage('Example') {
      steps {

>         bat "echo $EXAMPLE_SECRET"

Reviewer: I would use a credential for this example, since password parameters are not really recommended and this issue is the same for credentials and passwords.

Author: chaged parameter type in 3481e9984ce629aa54dab6a8d64dac087f3fc4b3

      }
    }
  }
}
```
Here, the `bat` step receives `echo sec%ret` and the Windows batch shell will simply drop the `%` and print out the value `secret`.
Because there is a single character difference, the value `secret` will not be masked.
Though the value is not the same as the actual password, this is still a significant exposure of sensitive information.
Again, single-quotes avoids this issue.

> .NOTE: When using password parameters, the Masked Passwords plugin should be installed to mask sensitive parameters from the console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: removed in 3481e9984ce629aa54dab6a8d64dac087f3fc4b3

```
pipeline {
  agent any
  parameters {
    password(name: 'EXAMPLE_SECRET', defaultValue: 'sec%ret', description: 'Enter a password')
  }
  stages {
    stage('Example') {
      steps {

>         bat 'echo $EXAMPLE_SECRET'

Reviewer: Windows uses `%` instead of `$` (also, should there be quotes around `%foo%` in case it has spaces? I don't think it matters for `echo`, but maybe it does in other cases? I can never remember how Windows handles this stuff):

```suggestion
        bat 'echo %EXAMPLE_SECRET%'
```

Author: fixed in 3481e9984ce629aa54dab6a8d64dac087f3fc4b3

When this is processed on the agent, rather than echoing the value `hello; ls /`, it will echo `hello` then proceed to list the entire root directory of the agent.
Any user able to control a variable interpolated by such a step would be able to make the `sh` step run arbitrary code on the agent.
To avoid this problem, make sure arguments to steps such as `sh` or `bat` that reference parameters or other user-controller environment variables use single quotes to avoid Groovy interpolation.

```
pipeline {
  agent any
  parameters {
    string(name: 'STATEMENT', defaultValue: 'hello; ls /', description: 'What should I say?')
  }
  stages {
    stage('Example') {
      steps {
        /* CORRECT */
        sh('echo ${STATEMENT}')
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Credential mangling is another issue that can occur when credentials that contain special characters are passed to a step using Groovy interpolation.
When the credential value is mangled, it is no longer valid and will no longer be masked in the console log.

```
pipeline {
  agent any

>   stages {
>     stage('Example') {
>       steps {
>         withCredentials([string(credentialsId: 'secret-with-symbols', variable: 'SECRET_VALUE')]) {
>           // value of credential = sec%ret
>           /* WRONG! */
>           bat "echo %SECRET_VALUE%"
>         }
>       }
>     }
>   }

Reviewer: In this case (just the wrong example, not the correct example), you have to use `$` instead of `%` for Groovy interpolation to take effect. Also, using `withCredentials` like this in Declarative is supported, but it would be clearer to use the Declarative-specific credentials syntax in `environment` like in your first two examples.

```suggestion
  environment {
        EXAMPLE_KEY = credentials('example-key') // Secret value is 'sec%ret'
  }
  stages {
    stage('Example') {
      steps {
        /* WRONG! */
        bat "echo $EXAMPLE_KEY"
      }
    }
  }
```

}
```

Here, the `bat` step receives `echo sec%ret` and the Windows batch shell will simply drop the `%` and print out the value `secret`.
Because there is a single character difference, the value `secret` will not be masked.
Though the value is not the same as the actual credential, this is still a significant exposure of sensitive information.
Again, single-quotes avoids this issue.

```
pipeline {
  agent any

>   stages {
>     stage('Example') {
>       steps {
>         withCredentials([string(credentialsId: 'secret-with-symbols', variable: 'SECRET_VALUE')]) {
>           // value of credential = sec%ret
>           /* CORRECT */
>           bat 'echo %SECRET_VALUE'"
>         }
>       }
>     }
>   }

Reviewer: Just for clarity I would use the Declarative-specific credentials syntax here as well:

```suggestion
  environment {
    EXAMPLE_KEY = credentials('example-key') // Secret value is 'sec%ret'
  }
  stages {
    stage('Example') {
      steps {
        /* CORRECT */
        bat 'echo %EXAMPLE_KEY%'
      }
    }
  }
```

----
Should Groovy perform the interpolation, the sensitive value will be injected directly into the arguments of the `sh` step, which among other issues, means that the literal value will be visible as an argument to the `sh` process on the agent in OS process listings.
Using single-quotes instead of double-quotes when referencing these sensitive environment variables prevents this type of leaking.

[pipeline]
----
// Declarative //
pipeline {
    agent any
    environment {
        EXAMPLE_CREDS = credentials('example-credentials-id')
    }
    stages {
        stage('Example') {
            steps {
                /* CORRECT */
                sh('curl -u $EXAMPLE_CREDS_USR:$EXAMPLE_CREDS_PSW https://example.com/')
            }
        }
    }
}
// Script //
----

==== Injection via interpolation

[WARNING]
======
Groovy string interpolation can inject rogue commands into command interpreters via special characters.
======

Another note of caution. Using Groovy string interpolation for user-controlled variables with steps that pass their arguments to command interpreters such as the `sh`, `bat`, `powershell`, or `pwsh` steps can result in problems analogous to SQL injection.

> This occurs when a user-controller variable (generally an environment variable, usually a parameter passed to the build) that contains special characters (e.g. `/ \ $ & % ^ > < | ;`) is passed to the `sh`, `bat`, `powershell`, or `pwsh` steps using Groovy interpolation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This occurs when a user-controlled variable (generally an environment variable, usually a parameter passed to the build) that contains special characters (e.g. `/ \ $ & % ^ > < | ;`) is passed to the `sh`, `bat`, `powershell`, or `pwsh` steps using Groovy interpolation.
```

For a simple example:

[pipeline]
----
// Declarative //
pipeline {
  agent any
  parameters {
    string(name: 'STATEMENT', defaultValue: 'hello; ls /', description: 'What should I say?')
  }
  stages {
    stage('Example') {
      steps {

>         /* WRONG! */

Reviewer 3: I'm concerned with including negative examples like this. Too often readers just copy an example they see and don't understand that it was an example of how not to do it.

Author: I can see that, though at least in this case, I think using quotes incorrectly has been such a common issue that I think it may be worth it to have these examples. Readers eyes do tend to stop on code and the big `/* WRONG! */` hopefully would be enough to catch their eyes?

        sh("echo ${STATEMENT}")
      }
    }
  }
}
// Script //
----

In this example, the argument to the `sh` step is evaluated by Groovy, and `STATEMENT` is interpolated directly into the argument as if `sh('echo hello; ls /')` has been written in the Pipeline.
When this is processed on the agent, rather than echoing the value `hello; ls /`, it will echo `hello` then proceed to list the entire root directory of the agent.
Any user able to control a variable interpolated by such a step would be able to make the `sh` step run arbitrary code on the agent.

> To avoid this problem, make sure arguments to steps such as `sh` or `bat` that reference parameters or other user-controller environment variables use single quotes to avoid Groovy interpolation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid this problem, make sure arguments to steps such as `sh` or `bat` that reference parameters or other user-controlled environment variables use single quotes to avoid Groovy interpolation.
```

  `withCredentials( ... ) { ... }` step snippet.

=== String interpolation

Jenkins Pipeline uses rules identical to link:http://groovy-lang.org[Groovy] for
string interpolation. Groovy's String interpolation support can be confusing to
many newcomers to the language. While Groovy supports declaring a string with
either single quotes, or double quotes, for example:

[source,groovy]
----
def singlyQuoted = 'Hello'
def doublyQuoted = "World"
----

Only the latter string will support the dollar-sign (`$`) based string
interpolation, for example:

[source,groovy]
----
def username = 'Jenkins'
echo 'Hello Mr. ${username}'
echo "I said, Hello Mr. ${username}"
----

Would result in:

[source]
----
Hello Mr. ${username}
I said, Hello Mr. Jenkins
----

Understanding how to use string interpolation is vital for using some of
Pipeline's more advanced features.

[WARNING]
.Interpolation of sensitive environment variables
====

Groovy string interpolation should [red]*never* be used with sensitive environment variables (i.e. credentials, see: <<Handling credentials>>).

> This is because the sensitive environment variable will be interpolated at Groovy evaluation, and the environment variable's value could be made available earlier than intended, resulting in the sensitive data leaking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is because the sensitive environment variable will be interpolated during Groovy evaluation, and the environment variable's value could be made available earlier than intended, resulting in sensitive data leaking in various contexts.
```

Author: resovled in de21b90b62357588df4ac3af80df66263a0c6e7a

> For example, consider a sensitive environment variable passed to the shell step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, consider a sensitive environment variable passed to the `sh` step.
```

Author: resolved in de21b90b62357588df4ac3af80df66263a0c6e7a

> Should Groovy perform the interpolation, the sensitive value would become available not only in the shell step, but the Jenkins Controller as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Should Groovy perform the interpolation, the sensitive value will be injected directly into the arguments of the `sh` step, which among other issues, means that the literal value will be visible as an argument to the `sh` process on the agent in OS process listings.
When single quotes are used, the argument to the `sh` step just contains the names of the environment variables, and those variables are safely expanded by the `sh` process on the agent when they are used.
```

Author: addressed in de21b90b62357588df4ac3af80df66263a0c6e7a

```
node {
  withCredentials([usernamePassword(credentialsId: 'creds', usernameVariable: 'USERNAME', passwordVariable: 'PASSWORD')] {
    /* WRONG! */
    sh "curl -u ${USERNAME}:${PASSWORD} https://example.com/"
    /* CORRECT */
    sh 'curl -u $USERNAME:$PASSWORD https://example.com/'
  }
}
```

====

[WARNING]
.Injection via interpolation
====

> Another note of caution. With Groovy string interpolation, it is possible to perform SQL-like injections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another note of caution. Using Groovy string interpolation for user-controlled variables with steps that pass their arguments to command interpreters such as the `sh`, `bat`, `powershell`, or `pwsh` steps can result in problems analogous to SQL injection.
```

Author: resolved in de21b90b62357588df4ac3af80df66263a0c6e7a

> This occurs when a variable (any type, not just environment variables) that contains special characters (e.g. `' " / \ $ & % ^ > < | ;`) is passed to the `sh`, `bat`, `powershell`, or `pwsh` steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This occurs when a user-controller variable (generally an environment variable, usually a parameter passed to the build) that contains special characters (e.g. `' " / \ $ & % ^ > < | ;`) is passed to the `sh`, `bat`, `powershell`, or `pwsh` steps using Groovy interpolation.
```

Author: resolved in de21b90b62357588df4ac3af80df66263a0c6e7a

For a simple example:
```
node {
  withCredentials([string(credentialsId: 'sec-ret-with-symbols', variable: 'SECRET_VALUE')]) {
    // value of credential = sec>ret
    sh "echo $SECRET_VALUE"
  }

> }

Reviewer: I think this example is probably clearer with a parameter rather than a credential, but I'm not sure how best to indicate that a parameter is in use. Maybe we should use Declarative with the `parameters` directive for the example?

Author: switched to parameter in 881f5b75229a60e43b136a639b47bc5cec2e5e10

```

> In this example, the string `"echo ${SECRET_VALUE"` gets interpolated by Groovy, and the value `echo sec>ret` gets sent to the shell step.

Reviewer 2: did you mean?
```suggestion
In this example, the string `"echo $SECRET_VALUE"` gets interpolated by Groovy, and the value `echo sec>ret` gets sent to the shell step.
```

Author: fixed in de21b90b62357588df4ac3af80df66263a0c6e7a

> In this example, the string `"echo ${SECRET_VALUE"` gets interpolated by Groovy, and the value `echo sec>ret` gets sent to the shell step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the argument to the `sh` step is evaluated by Groovy and `SECRET_VALUE` is interpolated directly into the argument as if `sh('echo sec>ret')` has been written in the Pipeline.
```

Author: resolved in de21b90b62357588df4ac3af80df66263a0c6e7a

> In the shell nomenclature, this does not echo the value `sec>ret`, but instead will create a file called `ret` that will contain the value `sec`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this is processed on the agent, rather than echoing the value `sec>ret`, it will create a file called `ret` containing the value `sec`.
```

Author: resolved in de21b90b62357588df4ac3af80df66263a0c6e7a

> It is easy to see how a carefully constructed variable could perform any number of undesired shell commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any user able to control a variable interpolated by such a step would be able to make the `sh` step run arbitrary code on the agent.
```

Author: resolved in de21b90b62357588df4ac3af80df66263a0c6e7a

> 

Reviewer: I think we need a clear "To fix this issue, do X so that Y" sentence. Maybe something like this:

```suggestion
To avoid this problem, make sure that arguments to steps such as `sh` or `bat` that reference parameters or other user-controller environment variables use single quotes to avoid Groovy interpolation.
```

An example of the "right" way to do this would also help.

Author: added an example in de21b90b62357588df4ac3af80df66263a0c6e7a

> Another unintended consequence of these accidental injections is that it can slightly mangle credential values such that password masking fails in the console log.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This kind of issue also sometimes occurs accidentally when credentials that contain special characters are passed to a step using Groovy interpolation.
This can result in the credentials being mangled, causing them to be invalid, and preventing them from being automatically masked in the console log.
```

Author: resolved in de21b90b62357588df4ac3af80df66263a0c6e7a

```
node {
  withCredentials([string(credentialsId: 'sec-ret-with-symbols', variable: 'SECRET_VALUE')]) {
    // value of credential = sec%ret
    bat "echo $SECRET_VALUE"
  }
}
```
Here, the `bat` step receives `echo sec%ret` and the Windows batch shell will simply drop the `%` and print out the value `secret`.
Because there is a single character difference, the value `secret` will not be masked.

> Though the value is not exactly the same as the actual password, this is still a significat exposure of sensitive information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Though the value is not exactly the same as the actual password, this is still a significant exposure of sensitive information.
```

Author: fixed in de21b90b62357588df4ac3af80df66263a0c6e7a

======

Another note of caution. Using Groovy string interpolation for user-controlled variables with steps that pass their arguments to command interpreters such as the `sh`, `bat`, `powershell`, or `pwsh` steps can result in problems analogous to SQL injection.

> This occurs when a user-controller variable (generally an environment variable, usually a parameter passed to the build) that contains special characters (e.g. `' " / \ $ & % ^ > < | ;`) is passed to the `sh`, `bat`, `powershell`, or `pwsh` steps using Groovy interpolation.

Reviewer 2: the quotes broke the ascii doctor vscode plugin code highlighting in the file from this line on, I assume they weren't a critical part of the docs?
otherwise feel free to re-add them and we can live with the extension not being able to handle this case

Author: not critical at all 👍

For a simple example:

> [pipeline]

Reviewer 2: this gives syntax highlighting for the jenkinsfile, and also if you wanted gives the option to add a scripted equivalent.
